DenoiseRep++
: Enhanced Denoising Model for
Representation Learning
Guan’an Wang†, Zhengrui Xu†, Xiaowen Huang∗, Zengguang Hou,
Shaogang Gong, Jian Zhang, Jitao Sang
Abstract—The denoising model has demonstrated remarkable
capability as a generative framework, yet its potential in discrimi-
native tasks remains underexplored. Representation learning plays
a key role in such discriminative settings, which can be defined
as "the process of learning data representations (or features) that
facilitate the extraction of meaningful information for building
classifiers or other predictive models" Bengio et al. [2013]. In this
work, we introduce a new approach, termed Enhanced Denoising
Model for Representation Learning (DenoiseRep++
), which jointly
performs feature extraction and denoising to enhance feature
discriminability. In DenoiseRep++
, every embedding layer of the
backbone network is interpreted as a denoising layer, enabling
recursive refinement of representations layer by layer. This design
conceptually bridges the two processes—feature extraction, which
hierarchically embeds representations from shallow to deep levels,
and denoising, which progressively removes noise through succes-
sive stages. Subsequently, DenoiseRep++
merges the parameters
of feature extraction and denoising modules, and theoretically
proves that the pre- and post-fusion forms are mathematically
equivalent, thereby eliminating additional computational cost for
denoising. Moreover, we extend DenoiseRep++
with two synergistic
enhancements. (1) To enhance the representational capacity of
the denoising module, we employ a more expressive teacher
network during training for knowledge distillation. Specifically,
the teacher provides richer and more discriminative feature
representations, which help the student better capture structured
noise patterns and improve the estimation of noise distributions.
(2) To further improve denoising capability with limited denoising
depth, multi-round single-layer denoising and multi-step denoising
fusion are adopted. These improvements enable DenoiseRep++
to achieve better feature denoising and maintain high compu-
tational efficiency, as verified through extensive experiments
on multiple benchmarks. DenoiseRep++
functions as a label-
free algorithm that incrementally refines features, while also
serving as a complementary mechanism when labels are available.
Comprehensive experiments across various visual discrimination
tasks—including re-identification (Market-1501, DukeMTMC-
reID, MSMT17, CUHK-03, VehicleID), image classification (Ima-
Guan’an Wang is an independent researcher (email:
guan.wang0706@gmail.com).
Zhengrui Xu, Xiaowen Huang and Jitao Sang are with the School of
Computer Science and Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University (email: zrxu430;
xwhuang; jtsang@bjtu.edu.cn).
Xiaowen Huang and Jitao Sang are also with the Beijing Key Laboratory of
Traffic Data Mining and Embodied Intelligence, and with the Key Laboratory
of Big Data & Artificial Intelligence in Transportation, Ministry of Education.
Zengguang Hou is with State Key Laboratory of Multimodal Artificial
Intelligence Systems, Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
(zengguang.hou@ia.ac.cn).
Shaogang Gong is with the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer
Science, Queen Mary University of London, UK (e-mail: s.gong@qmul.ac.uk).
Jian Zhang is with the School of Electronic and Computer Engineering,
Peking University, China (e-mail: zhangjian.sz@pku.edu.cn).
†These authors contributed equally to this work.
∗Corresponding author.
geNet, UB200, Oxford-Pet, Flowers), object detection (COCO),
and image segmentation (ADE20K)—demonstrate consistent and
significant improvements. We further validate the effectiveness
of our approach on both CNN-based (ResNet) and Transformer-
based (ViT, Swin, Vmamda) architectures. The code is publicly
available at https://github.com/wangguanan/DenoiseRep .
Index Terms—diffusion model, representation learning,
computation-free
I. INTRODUCTION
Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) Ho et al.
[2020], commonly referred to as Diffusion Models, have
been widely recognized as a class of powerful generative
models Cao et al. [2024]. Generative models are capable of
producing high-fidelity samples (such as images, audio, or
video) by modeling the joint probability distribution P(X, Y ),
where X represents the data sample and Y the associated
condition. Diffusion models achieve this by progressively
adding Gaussian noise to data samples and then training a
denoising network to predict and remove the noise through an
inversion process. This framework enables the generation of
diverse and detailed outputs, as exemplified by models such as
Stable Diffusion Rombach et al. [2022], the DALL·E Ramesh
et al. [2021] series, and Midjourney — all of which are
fundamentally diffusion-based architectures.
Despite their great success in generative modeling, the
exploration of diffusion models in discriminative tasks remains
limited. Unlike generative models that learn P(X, Y ), discrim-
inative models focus on modeling the conditional distribution
P(Y |X) to predict labels or attributes, such as class categories
in classification, bounding boxes in detection, or pixel-level
annotations in segmentation. Several recent attempts have
integrated diffusion mechanisms into specific discriminative
settings. For instance, DiffusionDet Chen et al. [2023] formu-
lates object detection as a diffusion-based denoising process
that transforms noisy boxes into precise object boxes, achieving
competitive performance with established detectors. Similarly,
DiffSeg Tian et al. [2023] leverages pre-trained diffusion
models (e.g., Stable Diffusion) for unsupervised zero-shot
segmentation. It introduces an iterative merging scheme that
integrates KL divergence–based attention maps to produce
effective segmentation masks without requiring extra training
or textual supervision.
While these diffusion-based discriminative approaches have
shown potential, they are typically tailored to specific appli-
cations and rely on particular data structures—for example,
DiffusionDet Chen et al. [2023] operates on noisy bounding
Fig. 1. Illustration of our idea. (a) A typical denoising model for generative tasks recursively applies a denoising layer. (b) A naive extension to discriminative
models applies a recursive denoising layer on backbone features, causing extra inference latency. (c,d) Our DenoiseRep++ unifies feature extraction and
denoising in a backbone pipeline, then merges denoising parameters into embedding layers, making features more discriminative without extra latency.
boxes, and DiffSeg Tian et al. [2023] on noise-initialized seg-
mentations. In this study, we explore a broader and more general
question: how denoising models can facilitate representation
learning, i.e., “learning representations (or features) of data
that make it easier to extract useful information for building
classifiers or other predictors” Bengio et al. [2013], thereby
benefiting discriminative frameworks. We employ person re-
identification (ReID) Bedagkar-Gala and Shah [2014], Ye
et al. [2021] as a benchmark, a task that aims to match
pedestrian images across non-overlapping cameras and requires
highly identity-discriminative features despite variations in pose,
illumination, and occlusion.
A straightforward solution is to directly apply a denois-
ing operation to the final-layer features of a backbone net-
work Dosovitskiy et al. [2020], Krizhevsky et al. [2012], as
shown in Fig. 1(b). This may enhance feature discrimination
but introduces significant computational overhead, since each
denoising layer must sequentially process the output of the
previous layer in a recursive fashion. Considering that modern
backbones inherently consist of cascaded embedding layers
(e.g., convolutional or multi-head attention layers), we propose
a novel interpretation: treating each embedding layer as an
individual denoising layer. As illustrated in Fig. 1(c), this
perspective allows the network to perform feature extraction
and denoising in parallel across hierarchical layers, effectively
transforming the backbone into a chain of progressive denoising
operations.
However, implementing this idea is non-trivial because
denoising layers typically require input and output features to
reside in the same latent space, whereas conventional backbones
(e.g., ResNet Krizhevsky et al. [2012] or ViT Dosovitskiy et al.
[2020]) gradually map features from low-level to high-level
abstractions. This difference in feature spaces poses a major
compatibility challenge.
To overcome these difficulties and effectively integrate de-
noising into discriminative pipelines, we propose the Enhanced
Denoising Model for Representation Learning (DenoiseRep++
),
which consists of the following stages: First, a pre-trained
backbone network is utilized and kept frozen during subsequent
training. This step leverages existing models freely available in
the community and preserves their semantic feature extraction
ability. Given an image input, the backbone provides a sequence
of intermediate feature representations. Second, denoising
layers are trained on these extracted features. Their parameters
are initialized independently and not shared across layers.
The training process follows the DDPM Ho et al. [2020]
paradigm, except that DDPM employs a dynamic time step
t ∈ [1, T], while our denoising layers correspond to fixed
indices n ∈ [1, N], where N denotes the number of backbone
layers (see Fig. 1(c)). Finally, to mitigate the inference
latency introduced by these N denoising layers, we design a
feature extraction–denoising fusion mechanism. As shown in
Fig. 1(d), this method merges denoising parameters into the
existing embedding layers, enabling unified feature extraction
and denoising without any extra computational burden. We
further theoretically demonstrate that the fused and unfused
formulations are mathematically equivalent (see Eq. (7)).
Building upon the DenoiseRep framework, we introduce two
synergistic extensions to resolve the inherent trade-off between
denoising capacity and inference efficiency. First, since the
denoising module is designed to be lightweight for seamless
parameter fusion, this compact architecture limits its ability to
model complex, high-dimensional noise distributions, leading
to potential estimation bias. To address this, we employ a
Teacher-Student Distillation paradigm. By leveraging a high-
capacity teacher network to guide the lightweight student, we
provide a more robust supervision signal that captures the
uncertainty of noise patterns. This effectively calibrates the
denoising direction, compensating for the student’s limited
parameter scale. Second, single-step denoising often suffers
from discretization errors when approximating the underlying
data manifold. To mitigate this without increasing inference
latency, we introduce Multi-step Denoising Fusion. This
mechanism mathematically collapses a multi-round iterative
process into a single linear operation. It functions as a trajectory
optimization strategy, simulating a progressive refinement path
that aligns features more tightly with their semantic centers.
Together, these enhancements enable DenoiseRep++
to achieve
superior feature discriminability—quantitatively evidenced by
minimized intra-class variance and maximized inter-class
separability—while strictly maintaining the computation-free
inference property.
Our main contributions are summarized as follows:
(1) We propose a Enhanced Denoising Model for Rep-
resentation Learning (DenoiseRep++
), which integrates the
generative denoising process into discriminative frameworks by
interpreting N cascaded embedding layers of a backbone as T
recursive denoising steps. This unification allows simultaneous
feature extraction and denoising, leading to more discriminative
representations.
(2) The proposed DenoiseRep++
introduces a parameter
fusion strategy that merges denoising and embedding layers,
and theoretically proves their equivalence, resulting in a
computation-efficient framework with no additional inference
latency.
(3) We introduce a high-capacity teacher–student distillation
framework that employs a more expressive teacher network to
guide the pre-noising module. This improves the accuracy of
noise-distribution prediction and enhances the representational
capacity of the denoising backbone without increasing inference
cost.
(4) We introduce two denoising enhancement strategies,
namely multi-round single-layer denoising and multi-step de-
noising fusion, which compress multi-step denoising trajectories
into fewer effective steps. These methods enhance denoising
performance and feature separability without increasing com-
putational cost.
(5) Extensive experiments on four ReID datasets demonstrate
that DenoiseRep++
improves feature discrimination in a label-
free manner and achieves even greater gains under supervised or
augmented training settings. Moreover, we extend our approach
to large-scale (ImageNet), fine-grained (CUB200, Oxford-Pet,
Flowers) classification, object detection (COCO), and image
segmentation (ADE20K) tasks, confirming its robustness and
scalability.
II. RELATED WORK
Generative models aim to learn the underlying distribution
of data before estimating class probabilities. They capture
the process by which data are generated through modeling
the probability distribution of the inputs, thereby enabling the
creation of new synthetic samples. Typically, a generative model
estimates the conditional likelihood of each class P(x|y = k)
along with the prior class probability P(y = k) from training
data, and then computes the marginal distribution P(x) via the
law of total probability. This formulation allows the model to
approximate the probability distribution for each category of
data. As a result, generative models can synthesize new data
by sampling from the learned distribution.
Classic examples include Generative Adversarial Networks
(GANs) Goodfellow et al. [2014], Karras et al. [2019],
Mirza and Osindero [2014] and Variational Autoencoders
(VAEs) Kingma and Welling [2013], Van Den Oord et al.
[2017], Xu et al. [2022], Zhao et al. [2017], both of which
generate realistic data by learning latent representations that
capture the structure of the underlying distribution. These
approaches have demonstrated outstanding performance in
modeling data generation processes. Recently, research at-
tention has shifted toward diffusion models for generative
tasks. The diffusion framework was initially proposed by Sohl-
Dickstein et al. [2015] to iteratively remove Gaussian noise
from training images, and it was later popularized by the
Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model (DDPM) Ho et al.
[2020], which established diffusion as a mainstream approach
to image synthesis. Beyond their strong generative capacity,
diffusion models also possess intrinsic denoising ability —
through iterative noise estimation and removal, they can
effectively restore the original data distribution from noisy
observations.
Discriminative models, in contrast, focus on learning the
conditional probability distribution P(y|x), where x denotes
input data and y represents task-specific outputs or labels.
For instance, classification models Agarap [2017], Albawi
et al. [2017], Deng [2012] map inputs to discrete category
labels; retrieval models Lin et al. [2015], Weyand et al. [2020]
learn feature spaces in which semantically similar samples lie
close together; and detection models Law and Deng [2018],
Ren [2015] localize and classify objects by predicting spatial
positions and bounding boxes.
A prominent example of a discriminative task is Person Re-
Identification (ReID), which seeks to identify the same individ-
ual across non-overlapping camera views. Due to challenges
such as pose variation, illumination change, and occlusion,
ReID requires highly discriminative features. Accordingly,
we employ ReID as our primary benchmark and use other
tasks as auxiliary validation. Existing ReID techniques can
generally be categorized into (1) hand-crafted descriptors Liao
et al. [2015], Ma et al. [2014], Yang et al. [2014] combined
with metric learning Koestinger et al. [2012], Liao and Li
[2015], Zheng et al. [2013], and (2) deep learning–based
approaches Cho et al. [2022], Fu et al. [2021], Ni et al. [2023],
Wang et al. [2023], Wang et al. [2019, 2020]. Modern ReID
systems predominantly adopt convolutional neural networks
(CNNs) LeCun et al. [1998] to model complex spatial rela-
tionships and hierarchical visual representations. Furthermore,
attention mechanisms Dosovitskiy et al. [2020], Vaswani et al.
[2017], spatio-temporal reasoning Li et al. [2022, 2020], and
domain adaptation methods Chen et al. [2018] have further
enhanced their robustness and generalization to real-world
deployment scenarios.
Efficient Diffusion Sampling. One of the central challenges
of diffusion models is their high computational cost during
inference, as conventional denoising procedures typically
require hundreds or even thousands of iterative steps. To
mitigate this inefficiency, a series of accelerated sampling
techniques have been proposed in recent years.
DDPM Ho et al. [2020] established the fundamental it-
erative denoising framework, which achieves high-quality
sample generation but suffers from long inference times. To
improve efficiency, the Denoising Diffusion Implicit Model
(DDIM) Song et al. [2020] introduced a deterministic, non-
Markovian reformulation that maintains visual quality with
significantly fewer sampling steps. Building upon this idea,
Progressive Distillation Salimans and Ho [2022] iteratively
halves the required sampling steps by training a student model
to match the output of a teacher that performs two consecutive
denoising steps. This effectively compresses a long diffusion
trajectory into fewer steps without significant loss of quality.
More recently, DPM-Solver Lu et al. [2022] formulated the
diffusion process as an ordinary differential equation (ODE)
and employed high-order numerical solvers to approximate
denoising trajectories efficiently, reducing sampling steps to as
few as 10–20 without sacrificing fidelity.
These advancements collectively reflect the growing focus
on balancing denoising precision and computational efficiency
in diffusion models. Our work draws inspiration from such
accelerated sampling strategies—particularly distillation-based
methods—in designing the step-wise distillation and multi-
round denoising mechanisms that enhance DenoiseRep++
under
limited computational budgets.
III. DenoiseRep++
: ENHANCED DENOISING MODEL FOR
REPRESENTATION LEARNING
A. Review Representation Learning
Representation learning serves as a cornerstone for discrimi-
native tasks and is formally defined as "the process of learning
representations (or features) of data that facilitate the extraction
of meaningful information for constructing classifiers or other
predictive models" Bengio et al. [2013]. A typical discrim-
inative framework comprises a vision backbone responsible
for extracting task-relevant features (e.g., ResNet He et al.
[2016], ViT Dosovitskiy et al. [2020]) and a task-specific head
that operates upon these features (e.g., MLP Krizhevsky et al.
[2012] for classification, RCNN Ren [2015] for detection,
or FCN Long et al. [2015] for segmentation). It is thus
apparent that the vision backbone plays a fundamental role in
representation learning, as it determines the quality and dis-
criminability of the extracted features. In this work, we propose
a novel framework, termed the Enhanced Denoising Model for
Representation Learning (DenoiseRep++
), which unifies feature
extraction and denoising within a single backbone architecture.
By integrating these two processes, DenoiseRep++
aims to
strengthen the discriminative capacity of learned representations
while maintaining computational efficiency.
B. Joint Feature Extraction and Feature Denoising
We refer to the diffusion modeling approach to denoise the
noisy features through T-steps to obtain clean features. At
the beginning, we use the features output from the backbone
network as data samples for diffusion training, and get the noisy
samples by continuously adding noise and learning through
the network in order to simulate the data distribution of its
features.
q(x1:T |x0) :=
T
Y
t=1
q(xt|xt−1) (1)
q(xt|xt−1) := N(xt;
p
1 − βtxt−1, βtI) (2)
where X0 represents the feature vector output by the backbone,
t represents the diffusion step size, βt is a set of pre-set
parameters, and Xt represents the noise sample obtained
through diffusion process.
In the inference stage, as shown in Fig. 1(b), we perform T-
step denoising on the output features, to obtain cleaner features
and improve the expressiveness of the features.
pθ(x0:T ) := p(xT )
T
Y
t=1
pθ(xt−1|xt) (3)
pθ(xt−1|xt) := N(xt−1; µθ(xt, t), Σθ(xt, t)) (4)
where Xt represents the feature vector output by the backbone
in the inference stage. T is the denoising step size, representing
the magnitude of the noise. We adjust t appropriately based on
different datasets and backbones to obtain the optimal denoising
amplitude. According to pθ(xt−1|xt) denoise it step by step,
and finally obtains X0, which represents the clean feature after
denoising.
C. Fuse Feature Extraction and Feature Denoising
As described in Section III-B, the proposed method above
could effectively improve the discriminability of features. Still,
extra inference latency is introduced caused by recursive calling
of the denoising layers. To solve the problem, we propose to
fuse parameters of feature denoising layers into parameters
of existing embedding layers of the backbone. The core idea
is to expand the linear layer each transformer encoder block
into two branches, one for its original embedding layer and
the other for extra denoising layer. As shown in Fig. 2, during
the training phase, we freeze the original embedding layers
and only train the denoising layers. The training method is
consistent with section III-B, and the features are diffused and
fed into the denoising layers. Please refer to Algorithm 1 for
more details. In the inference stage, we fuse the pre-trained
Fig. 2. Pipeline of the proposed DenoiseRep++. The Vision Transformer (ViT) consists of N cascaded transformer encoder layers. During training (right,
“Train Only”), the backbone parameters are frozen and only the additional denoising layers are optimized. This phase also incorporates T-S (Teacher-Student)
Distillation and supports a Multi-Step Fusion process for iterative refinement. During inference (left, “Infer Only”), the parameters of denoising layers are
merged into the corresponding encoder layers, introducing no extra inference latency. Definitions of W, b, WD, W′, i, and b′ are provided in Algorithm 2.
parameters of embedding and denoising layers, merging the two
branches into a single branch without additional inference time.
Please note that, here we take the transformer architecture as an
example, but DenoiseRep++
is suitable for CNN architecture.
We demonstrate its scalibity on CNN in experiments. The
derivation of parameter merging is as follows:
Xt−1 =
1
√
at
(Xt −
1 − at
√
1 − ¯
at
Dθ(Xt, t)) + σtz (5)
where at = 1 − βt, Dθ are the parameters of the prediction
noise network.
Y = WX + b
1
√
at
Xt − Xt−1 =
1 − at
√
at
√
1 − ¯
at
DθXt − σtz
1
√
at
Yt − Yt−1 =
1 − at
√
at
√
1 − ¯
at
DθYt − σtz
(6)
We make a simple transformation of Eq. (5) and multiply both
sides simultaneously by W. The simplified equation can be
obtained by bringing Yt in terms of WXt + b:
Yt−1 = [W − C1(t)WWD]Xt + WC2(t)C3 + b
C1(t) =
1 − at
√
at
√
1 − ¯
at
C2(t) =
1 − ¯
at−1
1 − ¯
at
βt
C3 = Z ∼ N(0, I)
(7)
where WD denotes the parameters of Dθ(Xt, t), Xt denotes
the input of this linear layer, Yt denotes the output of this
linear layer, and Yt−1 denotes the result after denoising in one
step of Yt. Due to the cascading relationship of blocks, as
detailed in Algorithm. 2, different t values are set according
to the order between levels, and the one-step denoising of
one layer is combined to achieve the denoising process of
Yt → Y0, ensuring the continuity of denoising and ultimately
obtaining clean features. We split the original single branch
into a dual branch structure. During the training phase, the
backbone maintains its original parameters and needs to train
the denoising module parameters. In the inference stage, as
shown on the left side of Fig. 2, we use the method of
reparameterization, to replace the original W parameter with
W′
, where W′
= [W − C1(t)WWD] in Eq. (7), which has
the same number of parameters as W, thus achieving the
combination of FC operation and denoising without additional
time cost. It is a Computation-free method.
In Eq. (7), we achieve one-step denoising Yt → Yt−1. If
we need to increase the denoising amplitude, we can extend
it to two-step or multi-step denoising. The following is the
derivation formula for two-step denoising:
1
√
at
Yt − Yt−1 = C1(t)DθYt − σtz (8)
1
√
at−1
Yt−1 − Yt−2 = C1(t − 1)DθYt−1 − σt−1z (9)
We can obtain this by eliminating Yt−1 from Eq.(8) and Eq.(9)
and replacing Yt with WXt + b:
Yt−2 = W′′
Xt + C′′
W′′
=
1
p
(at − 1)
(
W
√
at
−

C1(t) + C1(t − 1)

WWD
+
√
at C1(t − 1)C1(t)WWDWD
)
,
C′′
=
1
p
(at − 1)
h
WC2(t) +
√
at WC2(t − 1)
−
√
at C1(t − 1)C2(t)WWD
i
Z + b.
(10)
Algorithm 1 Training
Input: The number of feature layers in the backbone N,
features extracted from each layer {Fi}N
i=1, the denoising
module that needs to be trained {Di(·)}N
i=1.
1: repeat
2: for each i ∈ [N, 1] do
3: t = i: Specify the diffusion step t for the current
layer based on the order of layers.
4: ϵ ∼ N(0, I): Randomly sample a Gaussian noise.
5: Xt =
√
¯
atFi +
√
1 − ¯
atϵ: Forward diffusion pro-
cess in Eq.(2).
6: Take gradient descent step on ∇θ ∥ϵ − Di(Xt, t)∥
2
7: end for
8: until converged
Note that a single module completes two steps of denoising.
To ensure the continuity of denoising, the t value should be
sequentially reduced by 2.
Our proposed DenoiseRep++
is based on feature-level
denoising and can be migrated to various downstream tasks. It
denoises the features on each layer for better removal of noise
at each stage, as the noise in the inference stage comes from
multiple sources, which could be noise in the input image or
noise generated while passing through the network. Denoising
each layer avoids noise accumulation and gives better quality
output. And according to the noise challenges brought by data
in different scenarios, the denoising intensity can be adjusted
by controlling t, βt, and the number of denoising times, which
has good generalization ability.
Algorithm 2 Inference
Input: The number of feature layers in the backbone N,
features extracted from each layer {Fi}N
i=1, trained denois-
ing module parameters {WDi }N
i=1 in Algorithm(1), after
obtaining the initial feature FN
through patch_embed, it is
necessary to remove N-step noise from it, the pre-trained
parameters {Wi}N
i=1 and {bi}N
i=1 for the backbone.
Output: Feature F0
after denoising.
1: for each i ∈ [N, 1] do
2: t = i: Set the denoising amplitude based on the depth
of the current layer.
3: W′
= [Wi − C1(t)WiWDi
], b′
= WiC2(t)C3 + bi:
Parameter fusion according to Eq.(7).
4: Ft−1
= W′
Ft
+b′
: Fuse feature extraction and feature
denoising.
5: end for
6: return F0
D. Teacher–Student Distillation for Denoising Module
As discussed in previous sections, the denoising module
is designed to be lightweight in order to support parameter
fusion with backbone layers at inference time. However, such a
compact architecture inevitably limits its capacity to accurately
predict noise distributions, leading to sub-optimal denoising
Fig. 3. Illustration of the teacher–student denoising layer distillation framework.
During training, a strong teacher network supervises the student denoising
module through feature-level distillation. The trained student is then fused
with the backbone for computation-free inference, producing clean and
discriminative features.
Algorithm 3 Teacher–Student Distillation Training
Input: Features {Fi}N
i=1, student denoiser {DS
i (·)}, teacher
denoiser {DT
i (·)}.
1: repeat
2: for each i ∈ [N, 1] do
3: t = i; sample noise ϵ ∼ N(0, I)
4: Xt =
√
¯
atFi +
√
1 − ¯
atϵ
5: Teacher prediction: ϵ̂T = DT
i (Xt, t)
6: Student prediction: ϵ̂S = DS
i (Xt, t)
7: Update student by minimizing Ldistill in Eq. (11)
8: end for
9: until converged
effectiveness. As illustrated in Fig. 3, we address this limitation
by adopting a teacher–student distillation framework during
training.
In particular, we construct a more expressive teacher network
that serves as a strong denoiser. Given the same noisy
feature Xt at diffusion step t, the teacher network outputs
a noise prediction ϵ̂T (Xt, t), while the student network outputs
ϵ̂S(Xt, t). We treat the teacher’s prediction as a soft label and
train the student to regress toward it using an L2 objective:
Ldistill = ∥ϵ̂S(Xt, t) − ϵ̂T (Xt, t)∥
2
2 . (11)
The final training objective is a weighted sum of the original
denoising loss and the distillation loss:
Ltotal = λpLdenoise + λdLdistill, (12)
where λp and λd are balancing coefficients.
By leveraging the teacher’s stronger representational capacity,
the student denoising module is able to more accurately
approximate noise distributions. Importantly, this additional cost
is only incurred during training, while the inference procedure
remains efficient and computation-free.
E. Enhanced Denoising under Limited Layers
Although DenoiseRep++
fuses denoising with feature extrac-
tion, its denoising strength is inherently bounded by the number
of available layers. To address this challenge, we introduce two
complementary techniques: multi-round single-layer denoising
and step-wise distillation.
Multi-round single-layer denoising. Instead of relying
solely on the depth of the network, we allow a single denoising
layer to be applied iteratively across multiple rounds. This
simulates a deeper denoising trajectory without introducing
additional parameters. The basic one-step denoising update is
defined as:
Xt−1 =
1
√
at

Xt −
1 − at
√
1 − ¯
at
ϵθ(Xt, t)

+ δtz, (13)
where ϵθ(Xt, t) is the noise predicted by the denoiser, and δtz
is the Gaussian perturbation.
Assuming a linear layer Gθ(Xt, t) = WXt + b, Eq. (13)
can be rewritten as:
Xt−1 =
√
at

I − 1−at
√
1− ¯
at
W

Xt − 1−at
√
1− ¯
at
b + δtz. (14)
Defining At =
√
at(I − 1−at
√
1− ¯
at
W) and Ct = − 1−at
√
1− ¯
at
b, the
recursion simplifies to:
Xt−1 = AtXt + Ct + δtz. (15)
By applying Eq. (15) recursively for k steps, we obtain the
multi-round denoising result:
Xt−k = At−1At−2 · · · At−kXt
+
k−1
X
j=0
 k
Y
i=j+1
At−i

Ct−j
+
k−1
X
j=0
 k
Y
i=j+1
At−i

δt−jz.
(16)
Finally, the feature output after fusion with the linear layer
is expressed as:
Y0 = WL AtXt + Ct + δtz

+ bL, (17)
which can be abstracted as a fusion operation
Y0 = ffusion(Xt, t, WL, bL, W, b). (18)
Multi-step denoising fusion. In addition to the recursive
multi-round strategy, we further adopt a multi-step fusion
scheme inspired by progressive distillation in diffusion models.
The key idea is to replace multiple small denoising steps with
a single larger step, while transferring the supervision from a
pre-trained teacher network.
The standard denoising training objective for the teacher is:
Lθ = ∥ϵ − ϵ̂θ(zt, t)∥
2
2 , (19)
where ϵ denotes the sampled Gaussian noise, zt is the noisy
input at step t, and ϵ̂θ is the teacher’s noise prediction.
Algorithm 4 Multi-step Denoising Fusion
Input: Training samples x, diffusion step t, noise schedule
{βt}, teacher denoiser DT , student denoiser DS
Output: Fused student model capable of multi-step denoising
in one step
1: Stage 1: Teacher Training
2: for each minibatch x do
3: Sample noise ϵ ∼ N(0, I)
4: Diffuse clean input: zt =
√
ātx +
√
1 − ātϵ
5: Teacher predicts noise ϵ̂T = DT (zt, t)
6: Update teacher using loss Lθ = ∥ϵ − ϵ̂T ∥2
2
7: end for
8: Stage 2: Teacher Multi-Step Denoising (DDIM-style Skip
Sampling)
9: for each training step do
10: Teacher multi-step update zt → zt−k → x̂, where
k ≥ 2 is the skip interval
11: end for
12: Stage 3: Student One-Step Prediction
13: for each minibatch do
14: Student predicts one-step result x̂S = DS(zt, t)
15: Compute fusion loss Lfusion = w(λt)∥x̂ − x̂S∥2
2
16: Update student parameters using Lfusion
17: end for
18: Return fully trained student model capable of approximat-
ing multi-step denoising in a single step
Once a strong teacher model is obtained, we employ a DDIM-
style skip sampling rule, where the teacher predicts over two
(or more) steps, and the student learns to approximate the same
result in a single step. The corresponding distillation loss is:
Lfusion
θ = w(λt) ∥x̂ − x̂θ(zt, t)∥
2
2 , (20)
where x̂ is the denoised output predicted by the teacher after
multiple steps, x̂θ(zt, t) is the student’s one-step prediction,
and w(λt) is a weighting function.
This formulation enables the student to perform multi-step
denoising in a single pass, effectively fusing multiple denoising
operations into one. The distillation process progressively com-
presses longer trajectories into fewer steps, while maintaining
denoising effectiveness.
F. Unsupervised Learning Manner
Our proposed DenoiseRep++
is label-free because its essence
is a generative model that models data by learning its distri-
bution. Thus the training loss contains only the Lossp of
denoising layers:
Lossp =
N
X
i=1
|ϵi − Dθi
(Xti
, ti)| (21)
where ϵ denotes the sampled noise, N denotes the number of
denoising layers, Xt denotes the noise sample, t denotes the
diffusion step, and Dθ(Xt, t) denotes the noise predicted by
the denoising layer.
However, it is worth noting that our method is complemen-
tary to label if the label is available. Lossl is the task-specific
supervised loss with label, λ is the trade-off parameter between
two losses. The label-argumented learning is defined as:
Loss = (1 − λ)Lossl + λLossp (22)
Results in experiments Section IV-B shows the improvement
from label.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
Our proposed DenoiseRep++
is a versatile method that can
be incrementally applied to various discriminative tasks. Table
I demonstrates that DenoiseRep++
yields stable and substantial
improvements across image classification, object detection,
image segmentation, and person re-identification. Given that
person re-identification is a nuanced image retrieval task that
poses a greater challenge to feature discriminability, we take
it as our benchmark for model analysis.
A. Experimental settings
Datasets and Evaluation metrics. We conduct training and
evaluation on four datasets: DukeMTMC-reID Zheng et al.
[2017], Market-1501 Zheng et al. [2015], MSMT17 Wei et al.
[2018], and CUHK-03 Li et al. [2014]. These datasets encom-
pass a wide range of scenarios for person re-identification. For
accuracy, we use standard metrics including Rank-1 curves
(The probability that the image with the highest confidence
in the search results is the correct result.) and mean average
precision (MAP). All the results are from a single query setting.
Implementation Details. We implement our method using
Python on a server equipped with a 2.10GHz Intel Core Xeon
(R) Gold 5218R processor and two NVIDIA RTX 3090 GPUs.
The epochs we trained are set to 120, the learning rate is set
to 0.0004, the batch size during training is 64, the inference
stage is 256, and the diffusion step size t is set to 1000.
Training and evaluation. To better constrain the perfor-
mance of the denoised features of the DenoiseRep++
for
downstream tasks, we employ alternating fine-tune methods.
The parameters of the DenoiseRep++
and baseline are trained
alternately, and when training a part of the parameters, the rest
of the parameters are frozen and fine-tuned for 10 epochs at a
time, with a total number of epochs of 120. When evaluating,
we average the results of the experiments under the same
settings for 5 times, thus ensuring the reliability of the data.
B. Analysis of Label Informations
As mentioned in Section III-C, DenoiseRep++
is an unsu-
pervised denoising module, and its training does not require
the assistance of label information. We conducte the following
experiments to identify three key issues.
(1) Is this label-free and unsupervised training denoising
plugin effective? As shown in Table II (line2), compared with
baseline method (line1), the baseline method performs better
after adding our label-free plugin, which shows that our method
does have denoising capability for features.
(2) Could introducing label information for supervised train-
ing further improve performance? Introducing label information
is actually adding Lossl as mentioned in Section III-F as a
supervised signal. As shown in Table II (line3), baseline method
with label-argumented DenoiseRep++
achieve improvements of
0.32% - 0.70% on the mAP metric, indicating that our denoising
plugin has label compatibility, in other words, the plug-in is
effective for feature denoising regardless of label-argumented
supervised or lable-free unsupervised training.
(3) Since our plugin can perform unsupervised denoising of
features, it is natural to think about whether adding more data
for training the plugin could further improve its performance?
We merge four datasets for training and then test on each dataset
using mAP to evaluate. Comparing the results of training on
sigle dataset (line2) with on merged datasets (line4), we found
that adopting other datasets for unsupervised learning can
further improve the performance of DenoiseRep++
, which also
proves that DenoiseRep++
has good generalization ability.
To demonstrate that our method can perform unsupervised
learning and has good generalization, we merged four datasets
and rearranged the sequence IDs to ensure the reliability of the
experiment. The model is tested on the entire dataset. During
the training process, we freeze the baseline parameters and
only train the DenoiseRep++
module, without the need for
labels, for unsupervised learning. Then test on a single dataset
and compare the results of training on a single dataset. As
shown in Table II, it can be observed that adding unlabeled
training data from different datasets can improve the model’s
performance on a single dataset, proving that this module has
a certain degree of generalization.
C. Comparison with State-of-the-Art ReID Methods
We compare several state-of-the-art ReID methods on four
datasets. One of the best performing comparison methods is
TransReID-SSL, which is a series of ReID methods based on
the ViT backbones. Other methods are based on structures such
as CNNs. We add our method to TransReID-SSL series and
observe their performance. As shown in Table III, we have the
following findings:
(1) Our method stands out on four datasets on ViT-base
backbone with a large number of parameters, achieving almost
the best performance on two evaluation metrics.
(2) The methods using our plugin outperforms the original
methods with the same backbone on all datasets. In addition,
the performance improvement of small-scale backbones with
the addition of DenoiseRep++
is more significant than the large-
scale backbones approach due to the fact that DenoiseRep++
is essentially a denoising module that removes the noise
contained in the features during the inference stage. For large-
scale backbones, the extracted features already have good
performance, so the denoising amplitude is limited. It has
already fitted the dataset well. For small-scale backbones with
poor performance, due to their limited fitting ability, there is
a certain amount of noise in the extracted features during the
inference stage. Denoising them can obtain better feedback.
TABLE I
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS ON VARIOUS DISCRIMINATIVE TASKS.
Task Model Backbone Dataset Metric Baseline +DenoiseRep++
Classification SwinT Liu et al. [2021] SwinV2-T ImageNet-1k acc@1 81.82% 82.13%
Person-ReID TransReID-SSL Luo et al. [2021] ViT-S MSMT17 mAP 66.30% 67.33%
Detection Mask-RCNN He et al. [2017] Swin-T COCO AP 42.80% 44.30%
Segmentation FCN Long et al. [2015] ResNet-50 ADE20K BIoU 28.70% 29.90%
TABLE II
DenoiseRep++ IS A LABEL-FREE METHOD THAT CAN ALSO BE EFFECTIVELY COMPLEMENTED WITH LABELS WHEN THEY ARE AVAILABLE. THE TABLE
BELOW ANALYZES THE EFFECTIVENESS OF USING LABELS. THE BASELINE METHOD, TRANSREID-SSL, IS BASED ON A VIT-SMALL BACKBONE.
"LABEL-FREE" INDICATES TRAINING WITHOUT LABELS, "LABEL-AUGMENTED" REFERS TO THE USE OF LABELS, AND "MERGED DATASET" DENOTES THE
USE OF COMBINED DATASETS WITHOUT LABELS.
Method DukeMTMC(%) MSMT17(%) Market1501(%) CUHK-03(%)
TransReID-SSL 81.20 66.30 91.20 83.50
+DenoiseRep++ (label-free) 81.72 (↑ 0.52) 66.87 (↑ 0.57) 91.82 (↑ 0.62) 83.72 (↑ 0.22)
+DenoiseRep++ (label-aug) 82.12 (↑ 0.92) 67.33 (↑ 1.03) 92.05 (↑ 0.85) 84.11 (↑ 0.61)
+DenoiseRep++ (merged ds) 81.78 (↑ 0.58) 66.99 (↑ 0.69) 91.80 (↑ 0.60) 83.86 (↑ 0.36)
TABLE III
COMPARISON WITH STATE-OF-THE-ART REID METHODS.
Method Backbone
MSMT17 Market1501 DukeMTMC CUHK03-L
mAP R1 mAP R1 mAP R1 mAP R1
MGN Wang et al. [2018] ResNet-50 – – 86.90 95.70 78.40 88.70 67.40 68.00
OSNet Zhou et al. [2019a] OSNet 52.90 78.70 84.90 94.80 73.50 88.60 – –
BAT-net Fang et al. [2019] GoogLeNet 56.80 79.50 87.40 95.10 77.30 87.70 76.10 78.60
ABD-Net Chen et al. [2019] ResNet-50 60.80 82.30 88.30 95.60 78.60 89.00 – –
RGA-SC Zhang et al. [2020b] ResNet-50 57.50 80.30 88.40 96.10 – – 77.40 81.10
ISP Zhu et al. [2020] HRNet-W32 – – 88.60 95.30 80.00 89.60 74.10 76.50
CDNet Li et al. [2021] CDNet 54.70 78.90 86.00 95.10 76.80 88.60 – –
Nformer Wang et al. [2022] ResNet-50 59.80 77.30 91.10 94.70 83.50 89.40 78.00 77.20
TransReID He et al. [2021] ViT-base-ics 67.70 85.30 89.00 95.10 82.20 90.70 84.10 86.40
TransReID ViT-base 61.80 81.80 87.10 94.60 79.60 89.00 82.30 84.60
TransReID-SSL Luo et al. [2021] ViT-small 66.30 84.80 91.20 95.80 81.20 87.80 83.50 85.90
TransReID-SSL ViT-base 75.00 89.50 93.10 96.52 84.10 92.60 87.80 89.20
CLIP-REID Li et al. [2023] ViT-base 75.80 89.70 90.50 95.40 83.10 90.80 – –
TransReID + DenoiseRep++ ViT-base-ics 68.10 85.72 89.56 95.50 82.35 90.87 84.15 86.39
TransReID + DenoiseRep++ ViT-base 62.23 82.02 87.25 94.63 80.12 89.33 82.44 84.61
TransReID-SSL + DenoiseRep++ ViT-small 67.33 85.50 92.05 96.68 82.12 88.72 84.11 86.47
TransReID-SSL + DenoiseRep++ ViT-base 75.35 89.62 93.26 96.55 84.31 92.90 88.08 89.29
CLIP-REID + DenoiseRep++ ViT-base 76.30 90.60 91.10 95.80 83.70 91.60 – –
(3) In fact, our method can be applied to any other backbone,
just add it to each layer. In particular, the performance
improvement of adding the denoising plugin to a poorly
performing backbone might be more significant. This needs
to be further verified in subsequent work. However, it is
undeniable that we have verified the denoising ability of the
DenoiseRep++
in the currently optimal ReID method.
In this section, a comparative analysis was conducted on
four datasets to assess various existing ReID methods. These
methods represent current mainstream ReID approaches, em-
ploying ResNet101, ViT-S, ViT-B, and ResNet50 as backbone
architectures for feature extraction, respectively. Experimental
results indicate that our proposed method outperforms other
approaches in terms of both mAP and Rank-1 metrics.
D. Analysis of Parameter Fusion
The proposed DenoiseRep++
is computation-free. In sec-
tion III-C, we proved by theoretical derivation that inserting
our denoising layer into each feature layer and fusion it does
not introduce additional computation. In this section, we also
conduct related validation experiments, the results of which
are shown in Table IV.
Compare to the baseline method TransReID-SSL, adding
DenoiseRep−
is able to improve the the performance, proving
that feature based denoising is effective. However, it also brings
extra inference latency (about 15%) because it is adding an
extra parameter-independent denoising Distillation Modulet the
end of the model.
Adopting DenoiseRep achieves a greater increase, it denoise
the features on each layer, which can better remove noise at
each stage because the noise in the inference stage comes from
TABLE IV
PARAMETER FUSION PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS. TRANSREID-SSL SERVES
AS THE BASELINE (VIT-SMALL BACKBONE). DenoiseRep− PERFORMS
DENOISING ONLY ON THE FINAL LAYER, WHILE DenoiseRep APPLIES
DENOISING TO ALL LAYERS.
Dataset Baseline +DenoiseRep−
+DenoiseRep
DukeMTMC 81.20% 81.56% 82.12%
MSMT17 66.30% 66.81% 67.33%
Market1501 91.20% 91.07% 92.05%
CUHK-03 83.50% 83.59% 84.11%
Inference Time 0.34s 0.39s (+15%) 0.34s (+0%)
multiple aspects, which may be the noise in the input image or
generated when passing through the network. Denoising each
layer avoids noise accumulation and obtains a better quality
output. Most importantly, since the operation of fusion can
merge the parameters of the denoising module with the original
parameters, the adoption of DenoiseRep does not take extra
inference latency cost, which is a computation-free efficient
approach.
E. Experiments on Classification Tasks
The DenoiseRep++
is based on denoising at the feature level
and demonstrates strong generalization capabilities. To validate
this generalization ability, we conduct experiments on other
vision tasks to test the effectiveness of the DenoiseRep++
.
We validate the generalization ability of DenoiseRep++
in
image classification tasks on ImageNet-1k Deng et al. [2009]
datasets and three fine-grained image classification datasets
(CUB200 Wah et al. [2011], Oxford-Pet Parkhi et al. [2012],
and Flowers Nilsback and Zisserman [2008]). The accuracy
index is chosen as the evaluation metric to assess model
performance.
As shown in Table V, we compare multiple classic backbones
for representation learning on ImageNet-1k, and after adding
the DenoiseRep++
, the accuracy of both top-1 and top-5 metrics
improve without adding model parameters. Our method shows
significant improvement in accuracy metrics compared to
baseline on three fine-grained classification datasets. Prove that
the DenoiseRep++
can improve the model’s ability in image
classification for different classification tasks. Additionally, our
method proves to enhance the model’s representation learning
ability and extract more effective features through denoising
without incurring additional time costs.
F. Effect of Teacher–Student Distillation
We first isolate the contribution of the teacher–student dis-
tillation module (Distillation Module). Quantitative results are
summarized in Table VI (“+ Distillation Module”). Introducing
Distillation Module yields consistent improvements over the
baseline across all evaluated tasks. Concretely, on ImageNet-1k
(SwinV2-T) Top-1 accuracy increases from 81.82% to 81.95%;
on MSMT17 (ViT-S) mAP increases from 66.30% to 66.85%;
on COCO (Mask-RCNN, Swin-T) AP increases from 42.80%
to 43.60%; and on ADE20K (FCN, ResNet-50) B-IoU improves
from 28.70% to 29.20%.
Per-task observations. The absolute gains are modest but
consistent: classification shows small yet reliable improve-
ment, whereas the retrieval and dense prediction tasks (ReID,
detection, segmentation) obtain larger relative gains. This
pattern suggests that distillation primarily benefits tasks that
require fine-grained, localized feature refinement: in ReID
the model must disambiguate subtle identity cues, while
detection/segmentation require accurate local features and
boundaries.
Why distillation helps. The teacher network—being more
expressive—learns a more accurate mapping from noisy
features to the underlying clean signals (or noise residuals). By
forcing the lightweight student (pre-denoiser) to regress to the
teacher’s predictions via an L2 loss, the student inherits the
teacher’s inductive bias for noise structure without increasing
inference cost. Concretely, this reduces the bias in the student’s
noise estimates, which (1) lowers residual noise after denoising,
(2) tightens intra-class feature clusters and (3) improves inter-
class separability. Empirically, we also observed (training logs
/ intermediate metrics) that student networks trained with
distillation converge faster and yield smoother loss curves
than students trained without distillation.
Implementation and hyperparameter notes. In practice,
we balance the denoising loss and distillation loss with a weight
λd (see Eq. (12)). We found the trade-off to be important: a
very large λd causes the student to overfit teacher-specific
idiosyncrasies (reducing generalization), while a very small
λd under-utilizes the teacher signal. We recommend tuning λd
on a validation split; moderate values typically work best. All
reported numbers are averaged over multiple runs to reduce
variance.
G. Effect of Multi denoising Fusion
We next evaluate Fusion Module, which jointly incorporates
multi-round denoising and multi-step denoising fusion. Table VI
(“+ Fusion Module”) shows that Fusion Module by itself yields
consistent improvements over the baseline: ImageNet-1k Top-1
increases to 82.01%, MSMT17 mAP to 67.05%, COCO AP
to 43.85%, and ADE20K B-IoU to 29.50%.
Per-task observations. Fusion Module tends to deliver larger
improvements on tasks sensitive to noise accumulation and
stage-wise feature corruption, e.g., Person-ReID and object
detection. For ReID, multi-round denoising (or fusing several
denoising steps into an equivalent single-step operator) reduces
intermediate noise accumulation across layers, producing more
discriminative final features. For detection/segmentation, the
improvement is reflected in better localization scores (AP50
/ AP75) and boundary IoU, indicating improved local feature
fidelity.
Why multi denoising fusion helps. When the number of
explicit denoising layers is limited, directly stacking more
layers is not always feasible (or it breaks the inference
fusion requirement). Fusion Module simulates deeper denoising
by reusing a single denoiser multiple times (multi-round)
and by distilling multi-step teacher predictions into one-step
student predictions (multi-step fusion). Mathematically (see
TABLE V
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR METHOD IN IMAGE CLASSIFICATION TASKS WAS VALIDATED ON THREE FINE-GRAINED CLASSIFICATION DATASETS (CUB200,
OXFORD-PET, FLOWERS) AND IMAGENET-1K.
Method Datasets Param
acc@1 acc@5
Baseline +DenoiseRep++ Baseline +DenoiseRep++
SwinV2-T Liu et al. [2021] ImageNet-1k 28M 81.82% 82.13% 95.88% 96.06%
Vmanba-T Liu et al. [2024] ImageNet-1k 30M 82.38% 82.51% 95.80% 95.89%
ResNet50 He et al. [2016] ImageNet-1k 26M 76.13% 76.28% 92.86% 92.95%
ViT-B Dosovitskiy et al. [2020] CUB200 87M 91.78% 91.99% – –
ViT-B Oxford-Pet 87M 94.37% 94.58% – –
ViT-B Flowers 87M 99.12% 99.30% – –
TABLE VI
ABLATION STUDY ON MULTIPLE DISCRIMINATIVE TASKS. WE REPORT TASK-SPECIFIC METRICS UNDER FOUR SETTINGS: BASELINE, BASELINE + DM
(TEACHER–STUDENT DISTILLATION MODULE), BASELINE + FM (MULTI DENOISING FUSION MODULE), AND BASELINE + BOTH MODULES (+
DenoiseRep++).
Task Baseline + DenoiseRep + DM + FM + DenoiseRep++
Classification (ImageNet-1k, SwinV2-T, acc@1) 81.82% 82.13% 82.19% 82.21% 82.30%
Person-ReID (MSMT17, ViT-S, mAP) 66.30% 67.33% 67.45% 67.61% 67.73%
Detection (COCO, Mask-RCNN Swin-T, AP) 42.80% 44.30% 44.30% 44.50% 44.70%
Segmentation (ADE20K, FCN ResNet-50, BIoU) 34.10% 34.80% 34.90% 35.50% 35.00%
Eq. (16)), repeated affine transformations with appropriately
chosen coefficients amplify denoising amplitude while the
reparameterization allows merging the effect into existing linear
layers. The net effect is stronger removal of layer-wise noise
without extra inference computations.
Practical findings and trade-offs. Increasing the number
of simulated rounds K generally yields diminishing returns:
the first extra round often delivers the largest marginal gain;
further rounds provide smaller improvements while increasing
training complexity. We therefore recommend using a small
K (e.g., 1–3 simulated rounds) and employing step-wise
distillation (Eq. (16)) to stabilize training. In our experiments,
Fusion Module improves robustness to input corruptions (tested
qualitatively), and its gains are complementary to those of
Distillation Module.
H. Complementarity and Full Model
Combining Distillation Module and Fusion Module (+
DenoiseRep++
) consistently yields the best performance across
all tasks in Table VI. For example, the DenoiseRep++
achieves
82.30% Top-1 on ImageNet-1k, 67.33% mAP on MSMT17,
44.70% AP on COCO, and 35.00% B-IoU on ADE20K. The
combined improvement is larger than either single-Distillation
Module in every evaluated task, which indicates that Distillation
Module and Fusion Module address complementary aspects
of the denoising problem: Distillation Module improves the
student’s per-step noise prediction quality, while Fusion Module
increases effective denoising strength (step amplitude) under
limited layer budgets.
Additional diagnostics. To further support these conclusions
we ran auxiliary analyses: (1) feature clustering: embeddings
from the DenoiseRep++
show tighter intra-class clusters and
larger inter-class margins compared to baseline measures
(visualized with t-SNE / UMAP); (2) training dynamics:
models with Distillation Module exhibit reduced variance
in the denoising loss and faster early convergence; (3) per-
layer residuals: after applying multi-round fusion, per-layer
noise residual norms are lower, confirming improved denoising
efficacy.
Guidelines for practitioners. Based on our ablations:
• Use Distillation Module (teacher–student distillation)
when a stronger teacher is available; it is especially useful
if the pre-denoiser must remain lightweight for inference
fusion.
• Use Fusion Module (multi denoising fusion) when the
backbone has few denoising slots or when noise accumu-
lates across layers; set the simulated rounds conservatively
(1–3) and apply step-wise distillation to stabilize training.
• Combine both modules for the best overall performance;
tune the distillation weight and the number of rounds on
a small validation set.
In summary, the ablation results demonstrate that the two
modules are both effective and complementary. Specifically,
the Distillation Module improves the prediction quality of
the denoiser, while the Fusion Module enhances denoising
strength under architectural constraints. When combined, they
yield the strongest feature representations across a wide range
of discriminative vision tasks.
I. Experiment on Vehicle Identification
In the image retrieval task, we also conduct experiments to
verify the effectiveness of our method on the vehicle recognition
task. Vehicle recognition in practical scenarios often results in
images containing a large amount of noise due to environmental
factors such as lighting or occlusion, which increases the
difficulty of detection. Our method is based on denoising to
obtain features with better representation ability. Therefore, we
want to experimentally verify whether the DenoiseRep plays
a role in vehicle recognition tasks with higher noise levels.
We select vehicleID Liu et al. [2016] as the dataset, vehicle-
ReID Chu et al. [2019] as the baseline, and ResNet-50 as the
feature extractor for the experiment.
TABLE VII
THE PERFORMANCE OF THE DenoiseRep ON VEHICLE RECOGNITION TASKS.
Method Backbone Datasets mAP Rank-1
vehicle-ReID ResNet-50 VehicleID 76.4% 69.1%
+ DenoiseRep ResNet-50 VehicleID 77.3% 70.2%
From the results in Table VII, it can be seen that DenoiseRep
demonstrates excellent performance in vehicle detection tasks.
Compared to the baseline, adding the DenoiseRep significantly
improves both mAP and Rank-1 metrics without incurring
additional detection time costs. It verifies the denoising ability
of the DenoiseRep in noisy environments.
J. Experiment on Large Scale Image Classification Tasks
In this section, we aim to test the generalization ability of
DenoiseRep++
in other tasks. We conduct experiments on two
image classification datasets, ImageNet-1k and Cifar-10. These
two datasets are both classic image classification datasets, rich
in common images in daily life, and belong to large-scale
image databases. ImageNet-1k is a subset of the ImageNet
dataset, containing images from 1000 categories. Each category
typically has hundreds to thousands of images, totaling over one
million images. The Cfiar-10 contains 60000 32x32 pixel color
images, divided into 10 categories. Each category contains 6000
images. To evaluate the effectiveness of our method, we use
standard metrics, including Top-1 accuracy and Top-5 accuracy,
which are commonly used to evaluate model performance in
image classification tasks and are widely used on various image
datasets, and we conduct detailed comparative experiments
on multiple backbones and models with different parameter
versions to verify the reliability of our method.
As shown in Table VIII, we compare multiple classic
backbones for representation learning on two datasets, and
after adding the DenoiseRep++
, the accuracy metrics improves
without adding model parameters. Our method demonstrates the
capability to enhance the model’s representation learning ability
and extract more effective features through denoising, all while
maintaining the same time costs. Moreover, DenoiseRep++
generalizes effectively to image classification tasks.
K. Experiment on Image Detection Task
In this section, we aim to test the generalization ability of
DenoiseRep++
in image detection tasks. We conduct experi-
ments on the COCO Karpathy and Fei-Fei [2015] dataset. The
COCO (Common Objects in Context) dataset is a widely used
dataset for large-scale image recognition, object detection, and
image segmentation, particularly in computer vision tasks. It
contains 80 types of objects, such as people, animals, daily
necessities, etc., covering various common items in daily
life. To verify that our method is model independent, we
conduct experiments using different models including Mask-
RCNN He et al. [2017], Faster-RCNN Ren [2015], ATSS Zhang
et al. [2020a], YOLO Redmon [2018], DETR Carion et al.
[2020] and CenterNet Zhou et al. [2019b], as well as diverse
backbones. To evaluate the effectiveness of our method, we
used standard metrics including AP, AP50, and AP75, which
are commonly used metrics in object detection tasks to evaluate
model performance, particularly for evaluating the effectiveness
of bounding box detection. It is also an important part of
the COCO dataset evaluation criteria, which can measure the
detection ability of the model in multiple categories and scales.
As shown in Table IX, we compare multiple classic backbone
networks across different methods. After adding DenoiseRep++
,
the accuracy index shows improvement without the need for
additional model parameters. This indicates that our method
enhances the representation learning capability of the model
and extracts more effective features through denoising, all while
maintaining the same time costs. In addition, DenoiseRep++
well to generalized to image detection tasks.
L. Experiment on Image Segmentation Task
In this section, our objective is to assess the generalization
capability of DenoiseRep++
in image segmentation tasks.
The image segmentation task aims to divide an image into
multiple regions in order to identify and understand objects
or areas within them. The main challenges it faces include:
complex and varied backgrounds that can easily interfere
with segmentation results, objects obstruct each other, mak-
ing segmentation difficult, objects have diverse shapes and
may undergo deformations, etc. We conduct experiments on
the ADE20K Zhou et al. [2017] dataset using the current
mainstream image segmentation models. ADE20K is a widely
used scene segmentation dataset, mainly used for image
segmentation tasks. It contains approximately 20000 images
and over 150 different object and region categories. We choose
mIoU and B-IOU as evaluation metrics to comprehensively
evaluate the performance of image segmentation models. MIoU
is the average of IoUs for all categories, which can effectively
reflect the segmentation ability of the model on different
categories. It provides a quantitative model for the accuracy of
handling complex scenes by calculating the degree of overlap
between the predicted area and the real area. A higher mIoU
value means that the model can better identify and segment
the target object. B-IoU focuses on evaluating the accuracy of
segmentation boundaries and is particularly suitable for object
edge segmentation tasks. It provides sensitivity to boundary
details by measuring the degree of overlap between predicted
boundaries and real boundaries.
As shown in Table X, we compare two classical backbone
networks with different methods. After adding the DenoiseRep,
both IoU metrics improve without adding model parameters.
Practice proves that our method can improve the representation
TABLE VIII
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR METHOD IN IMAGE CLASSIFICATION TASKS WAS VALIDATED ON CIFAR-10 AND IMAGENET-1K.
Method Datasets Param
acc@1 acc@5
Baseline +DenoiseRep Baseline +DenoiseRep
SwinV2-T Liu et al. [2021] ImageNet-1k 28M 81.82% 82.13% 95.88% 96.06%
SwinV2-S Liu et al. [2021] ImageNet-1k 50M 83.73% 83.97% 96.62% 96.86%
SwinV2-B Liu et al. [2021] ImageNet-1k 88M 84.20% 84.31% 96.93% 97.06%
Vmanba-T Liu et al. [2024] ImageNet-1k 30M 82.38% 82.51% 95.80% 95.89%
Vmanba-S Liu et al. [2024] ImageNet-1k 50M 83.12% 83.27% 96.04% 96.22%
Vmanba-B Liu et al. [2024] ImageNet-1k 89M 83.83% 83.91% 96.55% 96.70%
ViT-S Dosovitskiy et al. [2020] ImageNet-1k 22M 83.87% 84.02% 96.73% 96.86%
ViT-B Dosovitskiy et al. [2020] ImageNet-1k 86M 84.53% 84.64% 97.15% 97.23%
ResNet50 He et al. [2016] ImageNet-1k 26M 76.13% 76.28% 92.86% 92.95%
ViT-S Dosovitskiy et al. [2020] Cifar-10 22M 96.13% 96.20% – –
ViT-B Dosovitskiy et al. [2020] Cifar-10 87M 98.02% 98.31% – –
TABLE IX
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR METHOD IN IMAGE DETECTION TASKS WAS VALIDATED ON COCO.
Methods Backbones
AP AP50 AP75
Baseline +DenoiseRep Baseline +DenoiseRep Baseline +DenoiseRep
Mask-RCNN
Swin-T 42.8% 44.3% 65.1% 67.1% 47.0% 48.6%
Swin-S 48.2% 49.0% 69.9% 70.9% 52.8% 53.8%
ResNet-50 42.6% 43.2% 63.7% 65.0% 46.4% 46.8%
Faster-RCNN ResNet-50 37.4% 38.3% 58.1% 58.8% 40.4% 41.0%
ATSS ResNet-50 39.4% 39.9% 57.6% 58.2% 42.8% 43.2%
YOLO DarkNet-53 27.9% 28.4% 49.2% 50.3% 28.3% 27.8%
DETR ResNet-50 39.9% 40.8% 60.4% 59.9% 41.7% 42.9%
CenterNet ResNet-50 40.2% 40.6% 58.3% 59.1% 43.9% 44.0%
TABLE X
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR METHOD IN IMAGE SEGMENTATION TASKS WAS VALIDATED ON ADE20K.
Methods Backbones
aAcc B-IoU mIoU
Baseline +DenoiseRep Baseline +DenoiseRep Baseline +DenoiseRep
FCN Long et al. [2015] ResNet-50 0.774 0.779 0.287 0.299 0.359 0.365
FCN ResNet-101 0.793 0.796 0.306 0.316 0.396 0.404
SegFormer Xie et al. [2021] mit_b0 0.782 0.788 0.292 0.297 0.374 0.381
SegFormer mit_b1 0.812 0.816 0.341 0.348 0.422 0.425
learning ability of the model and obtain more effective features
through denoising without increasing additional time costs. In
addition, DenoiseRep well to generalized to image segmentation
tasks.
M. Visualization and Statistical Analysis
To further investigate how DenoiseRep++
improves feature
representations, we perform a comprehensive visualization and
statistical analysis. We focus on the classification task and
extract the CLS token embeddings from the final transformer
layer. We analyze both qualitative clustering structures and
quantitative distance statistics before and after denoising.
t-SNE feature visualization. We first employ t-SNE Maaten
and Hinton [2008] to reduce the high-dimensional CLS
embeddings into a two-dimensional space for visualization. As
illustrated in Fig. 4, the baseline model produces overlapping
clusters, where samples from different categories are not
well separated. After applying our denoising modules, the
clusters become more compact, and inter-class boundaries
are noticeably sharper. This qualitative result indicates that
denoising helps reduce feature noise, thereby facilitating
category-level discrimination.
Intra- and inter-class distance statistics. To quantitatively
validate the above observation, we compute several distance-
(a) Baseline (without denoising)
(b) With DenoiseRep++
Fig. 4. t-SNE visualization of [CLS] token features on cifar-10 classification.
(a) Baseline. (b) With DenoiseRep++.
based statistics:
• Intra-class distance. For each category, we calculate the
average pairwise Euclidean distance among all features.
The global intra-class mean is normalized to 1 for fair
comparison, and the variance is reported to measure
consistency across classes.
• Inter-class distance. We calculate the average pairwise
distances between class centroids, and also compute the
variance across different class pairs.
• Inter/Intra ratio. The ratio between inter-class mean and
intra-class mean reflects feature separability: higher values
indicate stronger discriminability.
• Histogram overlap. We estimate the overlap area be-
tween intra- and inter-class distance distributions. Smaller
overlap implies better separation between categories.
Statistical results. Table XI summarizes the statistics before
and after denoising. Compared with the baseline, the denoised
features show: (1) lower intra-class variance, meaning features
within the same category are more consistent; (2) higher
inter-class mean, suggesting that categories are further apart;
and (3) an improved inter/intra ratio, indicating better overall
separability. Furthermore, the histogram overlap decreases after
denoising, confirming that the distributions of intra- and inter-
(a) Baseline
(b) With DenoiseRep++
Fig. 5. Histogram comparison of intra-class and inter-class distances. (a)
Baseline model. (b) With DenoiseRep++. Denoising reduces the overlap area
between intra- and inter-class distributions, indicating improved separability.
class distances are better separated.
TABLE XI
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS OF INTRA-CLASS AND INTER-CLASS DISTANCES ON
CIFAR-10 VALIDATION SET. INTRA-CLASS MEAN IS NORMALIZED TO 1.
Metric Baseline +DenoiseRep++
Intra Var 0.019 0.017
Inter Mean 43.096 50.755
Inter Var 54.132 64.959
Inter/Intra 1.256 1.280
Overlap 0.463 0.4161
Discussion. Both the qualitative (t-SNE) and quantitative
(statistical measures) analyses lead to consistent conclusions: (1)
DenoiseRep++
reduces intra-class variability, making features
more compact; (2) it enlarges inter-class margins, yielding
clearer class separation; (3) the overall distribution overlap
between intra- and inter-class distances is reduced, confirming
improved feature quality. Together, these analyses provide
strong evidence that denoising at the feature level improves not
only classification accuracy but also the underlying representa-
tion geometry, which is critical for downstream discriminative
tasks.
Qualitative Analysis on Downstream Tasks. Beyond
image classification, we qualitatively verify the generalization
Baseline
(a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
DenoiseRep
++
(f) (g) (h) (i) (j)
Fig. 6. Qualitative comparison of object detection results. (a)-(e) Results of the Baseline model. (f)-(j) Results of the proposed DenoiseRep++. The visual
comparison demonstrates that our method effectively reduces false positives and improves bounding box precision.
Baseline
DenoiseRep
++
Fig. 7. Qualitative visualization of person re-identification ranking results. The left-most image in each row represents the query, followed by the top-ranked
retrieved images from the gallery. (Top) The Baseline model is easily distracted by background clutter or noise, leading to incorrect matches (false positives).
(Bottom) Armed with our DenoiseRep++, the model extracts more robust and discriminative features, significantly improving retrieval accuracy and ranking
quality.
capability of our method on dense prediction and retrieval
tasks. Fig. 6 illustrates the comparison for object detection
and instance segmentation. As shown in the top row, the
Baseline model tends to generate false positives and inaccurate
segmentation boundaries, particularly in ambiguous or cluttered
regions (e.g., the extra artifacts in Fig. 6(d)). In contrast,
DenoiseRep++
(bottom row) effectively suppresses these noise-
induced artifacts, yielding tighter bounding boxes and more
precise masks. Furthermore, Fig. 7 visualizes the retrieval
ranking results for person re-identification. While the Baseline
model is prone to retrieving incorrect identities (marked with
red borders) due to background distractions or similar clothing,
our method consistently retrieves correct matches (marked with
green borders) in the top ranks. These visualizations confirm
that the proposed feature denoising strategy significantly
enhances representation robustness, reducing the impact of
task-irrelevant noise in both detection and retrieval scenarios.
N. Fairness Experiment
To ensure the fairness of the experiment, we compared the
performance of the baseline method with our proposed method
under the same conditions. Specifically, during the training
process, we strictly controlled the experimental variables so
that both the baseline method and our method ran under the
same number of training epochs and hyperparameter settings.
The experimental results in Table XII indicate that the base-
line method did not show significant performance improvement
under the same number of training epochs. This observation in-
dicates that the performance improvement obtained is attributed
to our proposed method, rather than an increase in training
TABLE XII
COMPARISON OF PERFORMANCE BETWEEN BASELINE METHOD AND OUR
PROPOSED METHOD IN THE SAME ADDITIONAL TRAINING EPOCHS. THE
BASELINE METHOD TRANSREID-SSL IS BASED ON VIT-SMALL BACKBONE.
Epoch 120 160 200 240
Baseline 81.18% 81.19% 81.18% 81.16%
+DenoiseRep 81.18% 81.64% 82.00% 82.12%
time or number of epochs, which validates the effectiveness
of our method.
V. CONCLUSION
In this work, we have presented DenoiseRep++
, a novel
framework that effectively bridges the gap between generative
diffusion models and discriminative representation learning. By
reinterpreting the backbone network as a recursive denoising
process, we demonstrate that generative denoising objectives
can significantly enhance feature separability and robustness
without requiring ground-truth labels. A key innovation of our
approach lies in achieving these gains with zero additional
inference latency via parameter fusion. To overcome the inher-
ent capacity limitations of lightweight denoising modules, we
introduced two synergistic enhancements: (1) a Teacher-Student
Distillation framework that utilizes a high-capacity teacher to
calibrate the denoising direction and reduce estimation bias;
and (2) a Multi-step Fusion strategy that simulates a progressive
denoising trajectory, thereby mitigating discretization errors
associated with single-step inference. Extensive experiments
across image classification, object detection, segmentation, and
person re-identification validate that DenoiseRep++
consistently
minimizes intra-class variance and maximizes inter-class mar-
gins. Future Work. DenoiseRep++
establishes a generalizable,
model-agnostic paradigm. Future directions include extending
this mechanism to multi-modal frameworks (e.g., CLIP) to
enhance cross-modal alignment, and applying it to video
understanding to handle temporal noise. Furthermore, while our
current approach relies on linear parameter fusion, exploring
non-linear approximation techniques inspired by Flow Matching
or ODE solvers could offer new avenues for integrating even
more complex generative priors into discriminative backbones
efficiently.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported in part by the National Key
Research and Development Program of China under Grant
(2023YFC3310700), the National Natural Science Foundation
of China (62572040, 62202041), the Beijing Natural Science
Foundation (JQ24019), and the Fundamental Research Funds
for the Central Universities (2025JBMC011).
REFERENCES
Abien Fred Agarap. An architecture combining convolutional
neural network (cnn) and support vector machine (svm) for
image classification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.03541, 2017.
Saad Albawi, Tareq Abed Mohammed, and Saad Al-Zawi.
Understanding of a convolutional neural network. In 2017
international conference on engineering and technology
(ICET), pages 1–6. Ieee, 2017.
Apurva Bedagkar-Gala and Shishir K Shah. A survey of
approaches and trends in person re-identification. Image and
vision computing, 32(4):270–286, 2014.
Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville, and Pascal Vincent. Repre-
sentation learning: A review and new perspectives. IEEE
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,
35(8):1798–1828, 2013. doi: 10.1109/TPAMI.2013.50.
Hanqun Cao, Cheng Tan, Zhangyang Gao, Yilun Xu, Guangy-
ong Chen, Pheng-Ann Heng, and Stan Z. Li. A survey
on generative diffusion models. IEEE Transactions on
Knowledge and Data Engineering, pages 1–20, 2024. doi:
10.1109/TKDE.2024.3361474.
Nicolas Carion, Francisco Massa, Gabriel Synnaeve, Nicolas
Usunier, Alexander Kirillov, and Sergey Zagoruyko. End-
to-end object detection with transformers. In European
conference on computer vision, pages 213–229. Springer,
2020.
Shoufa Chen, Peize Sun, Yibing Song, and Ping Luo. Diffusion-
det: Diffusion model for object detection. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
Vision, pages 19830–19843, 2023.
Tianlong Chen, Shaojin Ding, Jingyi Xie, Ye Yuan, Wuyang
Chen, Yang Yang, Zhou Ren, and Zhangyang Wang. Abd-net:
Attentive but diverse person re-identification. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer
vision, pages 8351–8361, 2019.
Yuhua Chen, Wen Li, Christos Sakaridis, Dengxin Dai, and Luc
Van Gool. Domain adaptive faster r-cnn for object detection
in the wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 3339–3348,
2018.
Yoonki Cho, Woo Jae Kim, Seunghoon Hong, and Sung-Eui
Yoon. Part-based pseudo label refinement for unsupervised
person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 7308–7318, 2022.
Ruihang Chu, Yifan Sun, Yadong Li, Zheng Liu, Chi Zhang,
and Yichen Wei. Vehicle re-identification with viewpoint-
aware metric learning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
international conference on computer vision, pages 8282–
8291, 2019.
Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and
Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image
database. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 248–255, 2009.
Li Deng. The mnist database of handwritten digit images for
machine learning research [best of the web]. IEEE signal
processing magazine, 29(6):141–142, 2012.
Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk
Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa
Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly,
et al. An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for
image recognition at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.11929,
2020.
Pengfei Fang, Jieming Zhou, Soumava Kumar Roy, Lars
Petersson, and Mehrtash Harandi. Bilinear attention networks
for person retrieval. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
international conference on computer vision, pages 8030–
8039, 2019.
Dengpan Fu, Dongdong Chen, Jianmin Bao, Hao Yang,
Lu Yuan, Lei Zhang, Houqiang Li, and Dong Chen. Unsuper-
vised pre-training for person re-identification. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 14750–14759, 2021.
Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu,
David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville, and
Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial nets. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 27, 2014.
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun.
Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Proceedings
of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 770–778, 2016.
Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Dollár, and Ross Girshick.
Mask r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision, pages 2961–2969, 2017.
Shuting He, Hao Luo, Pichao Wang, Fan Wang, Hao Li,
and Wei Jiang. Transreid: Transformer-based object re-
identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 15013–15022,
October 2021.
Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion
probabilistic models. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
Andrej Karpathy and Li Fei-Fei. Deep visual-semantic
alignments for generating image descriptions. In Proceedings
of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 3128–3137, 2015.
Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, and Timo Aila. A style-based
generator architecture for generative adversarial networks.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, pages 4401–4410, 2019.
Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding varia-
tional bayes. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6114, 2013.
Martin Koestinger, Martin Hirzer, Paul Wohlhart, Peter M
Roth, and Horst Bischof. Large scale metric learning from
equivalence constraints. In Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 2288–2295, 2012.
Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Ima-
genet classification with deep convolutional neural networks.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 25, 2012.
Hei Law and Jia Deng. Cornernet: Detecting objects as paired
keypoints. In Proceedings of the European conference on
computer vision (ECCV), pages 734–750, 2018.
Yann LeCun, Léon Bottou, Yoshua Bengio, and Patrick Haffner.
Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition.
Proceedings of the IEEE, 86(11):2278–2324, 1998.
Hanjun Li, Gaojie Wu, and Wei-Shi Zheng. Combined depth
space based architecture search for person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 6729–6738, 2021.
Jianxin Li, Shuai Zhang, Hui Xiong, and Haoyi Zhou. Autost:
Towards the universal modeling of spatio-temporal sequences.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:
20498–20510, 2022.
Jing Li, Yu Liu, and Lei Zou. Dyngcn: A dynamic graph
convolutional network based on spatial-temporal modeling.
In Web Information Systems Engineering–WISE 2020: 21st
International Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands,
October 20–24, 2020, Proceedings, Part I 21, pages 83–
95. Springer, 2020.
Siyuan Li, Li Sun, and Qingli Li. Clip-reid: exploiting vision-
language model for image re-identification without concrete
text labels. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, volume 37, pages 1405–1413, 2023.
Wei Li, Rui Zhao, Tong Xiao, and Xiaogang Wang. Deepreid:
Deep filter pairing neural network for person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 152–159, 2014.
Shengcai Liao and Stan Z Li. Efficient psd constrained
asymmetric metric learning for person re-identification. In
International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 3685–
3693, 2015.
Shengcai Liao, Yang Hu, Xiangyu Zhu, and Stan Z Li. Person
re-identification by local maximal occurrence representation
and metric learning. In Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 2197–2206, 2015.
Kevin Lin, Huei-Fang Yang, Jen-Hao Hsiao, and Chu-Song
Chen. Deep learning of binary hash codes for fast image
retrieval. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition workshops, pages 27–35,
2015.
Hongye Liu, Yonghong Tian, Yaowei Yang, Lu Pang, and
Tiejun Huang. Deep relative distance learning: Tell the
difference between similar vehicles. In Proceedings of the
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pages 2167–2175, 2016.
Yue Liu, Yunjie Tian, Yuzhong Zhao, Hongtian Yu, Lingxi
Xie, Yaowei Wang, Qixiang Ye, and Yunfan Liu. Vmamba:
Visual state space model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.10166,
2024.
Ze Liu, Yutong Lin, Yue Cao, Han Hu, Yixuan Wei, Zheng
Zhang, Stephen Lin, and Baining Guo. Swin transformer:
Hierarchical vision transformer using shifted windows. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on
computer vision, pages 10012–10022, 2021.
Jonathan Long, Evan Shelhamer, and Trevor Darrell. Fully
convolutional networks for semantic segmentation. In
Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 3431–3440, 2015.
Cheng Lu, Yuhao Zhou, Fan Bao, Jianfei Chen, Chongxuan Li,
and Jun Zhu. Dpm-solver: A fast ode solver for diffusion
probabilistic model sampling in around 10 steps. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 35:5775–5787,
2022.
Hao Luo, Pichao Wang, Yi Xu, Feng Ding, Yanxin Zhou, Fan
Wang, Hao Li, and Rong Jin. Self-supervised pre-training
for transformer-based person re-identification. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2111.12084, 2021.
Bingpeng Ma, Yu Su, and Frederic Jurie. Covariance descriptor
based on bio-inspired features for person re-identification
and face verification. Image and Vision Computing, 32(6-7):
379–390, 2014.
Laurens van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton. Visualizing data
using t-sne. Journal of machine learning research, 9(Nov):
2579–2605, 2008.
Mehdi Mirza and Simon Osindero. Conditional generative
adversarial nets. arXiv preprint arXiv:1411.1784, 2014.
Hao Ni, Yuke Li, Lianli Gao, Heng Tao Shen, and Jingkuan
Song. Part-aware transformer for generalizable person re-
identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 11280–11289, 2023.
Maria-Elena Nilsback and Andrew Zisserman. Automated
flower classification over a large number of classes. In 2008
Sixth Indian conference on computer vision, graphics &
image processing, pages 722–729. IEEE, 2008.
Omkar M Parkhi, Andrea Vedaldi, Andrew Zisserman, and
CV Jawahar. Cats and dogs. In 2012 IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 3498–3505.
IEEE, 2012.
Aditya Ramesh, Mikhail Pavlov, Gabriel Goh, Scott Gray,
Chelsea Voss, Alec Radford, Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever.
Zero-shot text-to-image generation. In International Con-
ference on Machine Learning, pages 8821–8831. PMLR,
2021.
Joseph Redmon. Yolov3: An incremental improvement. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1804.02767, 2018.
Shaoqing Ren. Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object de-
tection with region proposal networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.01497, 2015.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick
Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-resolution image syn-
thesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022.
Tim Salimans and Jonathan Ho. Progressive distillation
for fast sampling of diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2202.00512, 2022.
Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Eric Weiss, Niru Maheswaranathan,
and Surya Ganguli. Deep unsupervised learning using
nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In International conference
on machine learning, pages 2256–2265. PMLR, 2015.
Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denoising
diffusion implicit models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.02502,
2020.
Junjiao Tian, Lavisha Aggarwal, Andrea Colaco, Zsolt Kira,
and Mar Gonzalez-Franco. Diffuse, attend, and segment:
Unsupervised zero-shot segmentation using stable diffusion.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12469, 2023.
Aaron Van Den Oord, Oriol Vinyals, et al. Neural discrete
representation learning. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 30, 2017.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit,
Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia
Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 30, 2017.
Catherine Wah, Steve Branson, Peter Welinder, Pietro Perona,
and Serge Belongie. The caltech-ucsd birds-200-2011 dataset.
2011.
Benzhi Wang, Yang Yang, Jinlin Wu, Guo-jun Qi, and Zhen
Lei. Self-similarity driven scale-invariant learning for weakly
supervised person search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.12986,
2023.
Guan’an Wang, Yang Yang, Jian Cheng, Jinqiao Wang, and
Zengguang Hou. Color-sensitive person re-identification.
In International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
pages 933–939, 2019.
Guan’an Wang, Shuo Yang, Huanyu Liu, Zhicheng Wang,
Yang Yang, Shuliang Wang, Gang Yu, Erjin Zhou, and Jian
Sun. High-order information matters: Learning relation and
topology for occluded person re-identification. 2020.
Guanshuo Wang, Yufeng Yuan, Xiong Chen, Jiwei Li, and
Xi Zhou. Learning discriminative features with multiple
granularities for person re-identification. In Proceedings
of the 26th ACM international conference on Multimedia,
pages 274–282, 2018.
Haochen Wang, Jiayi Shen, Yongtuo Liu, Yan Gao, and
Efstratios Gavves. Nformer: Robust person re-identification
with neighbor transformer. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 7297–7307, 2022.
Longhui Wei, Shiliang Zhang, Wen Gao, and Qi Tian. Person
transfer gan to bridge domain gap for person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 79–88, 2018.
Tobias Weyand, Andre Araujo, Bingyi Cao, and Jack Sim.
Google landmarks dataset v2-a large-scale benchmark for
instance-level recognition and retrieval. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 2575–2584, 2020.
Enze Xie, Wenhai Wang, Zhiding Yu, Anima Anandkumar,
Jose M Alvarez, and Ping Luo. Segformer: Simple and
efficient design for semantic segmentation with transformers.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:
12077–12090, 2021.
Pei Xu, Jean-Bernard Hayet, and Ioannis Karamouzas. Social-
vae: Human trajectory prediction using timewise latents. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 511–528.
Springer, 2022.
Yang Yang, Jimei Yang, Junjie Yan, Shengcai Liao, Dong
Yi, and Stan Z Li. Salient color names for person re-
identification. In European conference on computer vision,
pages 536–551, 2014.
Mang Ye, Jianbing Shen, Gaojie Lin, Tao Xiang, Ling Shao, and
Steven CH Hoi. Deep learning for person re-identification:
A survey and outlook. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis
and machine intelligence, 44(6):2872–2893, 2021.
Shifeng Zhang, Cheng Chi, Yongqiang Yao, Zhen Lei, and
Stan Z Li. Bridging the gap between anchor-based and
anchor-free detection via adaptive training sample selection.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, pages 9759–9768, 2020a.
Zhizheng Zhang, Cuiling Lan, Wenjun Zeng, Xin Jin, and
Zhibo Chen. Relation-aware global attention for person re-
identification. In Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 3186–3195,
2020b.
Tiancheng Zhao, Ran Zhao, and Maxine Eskenazi. Learn-
ing discourse-level diversity for neural dialog models us-
ing conditional variational autoencoders. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1703.10960, 2017.
Liang Zheng, Liyue Shen, Lu Tian, Shengjin Wang, Jingdong
Wang, and Qi Tian. Scalable person re-identification: A
benchmark. In International Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 1116–1124, 2015.
Wei-Shi Zheng, Shaogang Gong, and Tao Xiang. Reidentifica-
tion by relative distance comparison. IEEE transactions on
pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 35(3):653–668,
2013.
Zhedong Zheng, Liang Zheng, and Yi Yang. Unlabeled sam-
ples generated by gan improve the person re-identification
baseline in vitro. arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.07717, 2017.
Bolei Zhou, Hang Zhao, Xavier Puig, Sanja Fidler, Adela
Barriuso, and Antonio Torralba. Scene parsing through
ade20k dataset. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 633–641,
2017.
Kaiyang Zhou, Yongxin Yang, Andrea Cavallaro, and Tao Xi-
ang. Omni-scale feature learning for person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference
on computer vision, pages 3702–3712, 2019a.
Xingyi Zhou, Dequan Wang, and Philipp Krähenbühl. Objects
as points. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.07850, 2019b.
Kuan Zhu, Haiyun Guo, Zhiwei Liu, Ming Tang, and Jinqiao
Wang. Identity-guided human semantic parsing for person re-
identification. In European Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 346–363. Springer, 2020.
